Hi how can I help you today?

Hi, Doctor. So you know I've been here.

Last week for.

My strained rotator cuff.

And I'm going to have to take some time off because.

Because it's now been over a couple weeks that I've been off and it's really not recovering with the physiotherapy that we're doing. So I brought in a form today to to finalize you know some short term disability so I can take a bit more time off.

From my welding work OK.

Yeah, I remember this is the right shoulder. So it was a right rotator cuff tear. Let me look at the form here. Alright, So I'm just going to go through the form, ask you questions from it as we go along.

So.

So the injury was.

March 28th, 2024 and then I examined you.

On April.

13th 2024.

You were immediately disabled, I believe after the injury, so that you were not able to work on.

March 29th, 2024.

And yeah, there is currently a medical treatment in place, medical treatment plan in place.

And the treatment of employment, the employee is compliant with the treatment plan, which I understand is ALL that physiotherapy.

Can the employee return to work on modified duties? I think yes. We can do some desk work I believe, right?

Rather than welding. So I'll put that as today, but you know, make it as a part time and see if you can find anything that's actually in your skill set so that that will be as of today, April 25th, 2024.

So in terms of.

Modified duty. So yeah, you're obviously can't use your arm for the welding, so that involves not able to hold anything or move the arm at ALL. So you can't hold the.

Tools that you need.

And yeah, so tell me a little bit about recovery. With physiotherapy. Yeah, we've been doing a lot of sessions twice a week. I've been going one hour per session. They've given me a lot of exercises and stretches. But you know, as you know, this pretty severe rotator cuff tear.

You know.

Ultrasound showing its full thickness. So I think I'm going to have a prolonged recovery. Yeah, I agree with you. So I think the expected length of time modifications is going to be for at least another six weeks. And yes, this is a injury at work related and we have already submitted the Form 8 to WSIB.

This is not related to pregnancy and I'm going to be seeing you every two weeks.

And the most dated most recent examination is today, April 25th, 2024. You haven't had a similar condition to this before, have you? No, no, doctor. It's my first major shoulder injury. ALL right, So going through the functional abilities list, walking, there's no restriction. Standing, there's no restriction. Sitting, there's no restriction.

Lifting Florida waste.

Yeah, we're gonna put that as other up to 5 lbs.

On the right side.

And lifting waist to shoulder as well, up to 5 lbs on the right side.

And yeah.

Stair climbing, no restriction. Able to drive.

I'm going to put other as not able to drive because you can't hold the steering wheel properly. Able to operate heavy machinery.

That's another not at ALL. Employee is right-handed.

And limited ability to use left hand.

To no, there's none of those will check off, but in terms of limited ability to use right hand.

Yes, ALL of these hold objects, script, type and write.

And completely unable to use left hand. No, none of these and completely unable to use right hand.

None of these either. So for terms of hours per day, we'll do partial hours.

And we'll say 4 hours per day. Anticipation duration is 6 weeks.

Cognitive abilities, ALL of them.

Are no restriction in terms of deadline pressures, attention, memory, reasoning, problem solving, ALL of those are no restriction.

It's not a psychological.

Condition.

OK. You haven't been hospitalized. There's no planned surgery yet?

You're taking pain medication, so Tylenol 653 times a day as needed.

Therapy, yes. And that's the indicated therapy is physiotherapy. You're doing that twice a week 'cause I mentioned and it's an outpatient.

So far there's only been minimal improvements in terms of.

Range of motion, level of pain and ability to hold items in the hand, Umm, so would you say it's about 10% recovery, Yeah, it's only about 10%. Umm, so slow recovery and will be reassessed potentially needing further different kind of treatments such as surgery. We'll we'll see that in the future visits. And yes, we I've discussed this with the return to a plan with the patient.

Yeah, and the details are that continue as described above.

So desk job for four hours per day maximum due to the limitation with doing typing.

These this will be reassessed every visit. When you come in two weeks we'll see your recovery and perhaps we can.

Increase those hours there at that point and also increase the amount of.

Abilities to to type or other desk job.

Work habits and then the expected return to work full time still to determine but we can put down for now.

May.

27th 2024 The next appointment will be May 9th, 2024. And yeah, that sounds good. Any other questions for me?

No, I appreciate it, Doctor. Let's let me get the form from you now and I will circle back if there's any questions from the insurance company.

Subjective:
S1 Injury and Treatment History:
- Reported a right rotator cuff tear that occurred on March 28th, 2024.
- Examined on April 13th, 2024.
- Disabled and unable to work since March 29th, 2024.
- Currently undergoing physiotherapy twice a week, one hour per session.
- Minimal improvement noted with only about 10% recovery.
- Pain managed with Tylenol 650mg three times a day as needed.

S2 Employment and Disability:
- Employed as a welder, but unable to perform duties due to injury.
- Seeking short-term disability to allow for recovery.
- Can return to work on modified duties, such as desk work, for four hours per day.
- Unable to use right arm for welding, holding tools, or driving.
- Limited ability to use right hand for holding objects, scripting, typing, and writing.

Objective:
- Ultrasound showed a full-thickness tear of the right rotator cuff.
- Physical limitations include lifting up to 5 lbs with the right hand, inability to drive or operate heavy machinery, and limited use of the right hand.
- Cognitive abilities, including attention, memory, reasoning, and problem-solving, are unrestricted.

Assessment:
- Diagnosed with a severe right rotator cuff tear.
- Slow recovery despite ongoing physiotherapy.
- Possible need for further treatments such as surgery.

Plan:
- Continue with current physiotherapy regimen.
- Reassess condition and treatment plan every two weeks.
- Modify work duties to accommodate physical limitations.
- Anticipate duration of modified duties to be six weeks.
- Next appointment scheduled for May 9th, 2024.
- Possible full return to work by May 27th, 2024, to be reassessed based on recovery progress.

04/25/2024 10:38:24AM - 10:47:15AM (00:08:51)
